---
title: ggplot2 Chapter 5 errata
layout: post
categories: errata
comments: true
author: mike
---


# Setting the plot title

On pages 67 - 68, there are several lines of code that use `+ opts(title = "geom_xxxx")` to set the plot titles. Since `opts()` is deprecated and should no longer be used, proper alternatives are:

```r
+ labs(title = "geom_xxxx")
## OR
+ ggtitle("geom_xxxx")
```

# Finding a missing function

When you try to plot the right-side panel of Figure 5.4 on pg. 71, you will likely get an error:

```r
library(ggplot2)
qplot(carat, depth, data = diamonds, geom = "boxplot",
  group = round_any(carat, 0.1, floor), xlim = c(0, 3))
```

```
## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos) : could not find function "round_any"
```

Let's try to use the `round_any()` function without `qplot()`.

```r
round_any(1234, 100)
```

```
## Error: could not find function "round_any"
```

We get the same error, so let's see if we can figure out what's up with `round_any()`.

```r
?round_any
```

```
## No documentation for 'round_any' in specified packages and libraries:
## you could try '??round_any'
```

OK, let's follow that advice...

```r
??round_any
```

In the window that pops up, we see that `round_any()` is found in both `plyr` and `reshape`. These packages are both dependencies of `ggplot2` and the `round_any()` function is the same in each. For access to the function, we need to load one of them.

```r
library(plyr)
?round_any
```

Now we get the help file for `round_any()` and the function actually works:

```r
round_any(1234, 100)
```

```
## [1] 1200
```

Another function that you need later will also be loaded with this approach: `ddply()`

# Specifying the transparency of a color

The code on pg. 73-74 for building the plots in Figures 5.8 and 5.9 uses a deprecated method for setting the transparency of a color:

```r
df <- data.frame(x = rnorm(100000), y = rnorm(100000))
norm <- ggplot(df, aes(x, y))
norm + geom_point(colour = alpha("black", 1/3))
```

```
## Error in do.call("layer", list(mapping = mapping, data = data, stat = stat,  :
##   could not find function "alpha"
```

Instead, `color` and `alpha` must be set separately:

```r
norm + geom_point(colour = "black", alpha = 1/3)
```

# Removing a legend

Since `opts()` has been deprecated, legends should not be removed with `+ opts(legend.position = "none")`. The proper method is now uses `theme()`.

```r
+ theme(legend.position = "none")
```

# Geom vs. Stat

On page 75, `stat_bin2d()` and `stat_binhex()` are used when `geom_bin2d()` and `geom_hex()` would have given the same results. This is becuase they are the default geoms for these stats (and vice versa). In such a case, it is probably more simple to just specify the geom since that is what we are used to.

Later on, however, `stat_density2d(geom = "point")` and `stat_density2d(geom = "tile")` are used to demonstrate how to use the non-default geom for a stat.

# Others

There are more issues with the code in this chapter. But this will get you started. I'll update this when I have a chance.










