---
title: About R Club
layout: post
categories:
comments: true
author: Mike Covington
---

# Welcome to the R Club website!

R Club consists of a group of plant biologists at UC Davis that are interested in learning R. For Winter 2013, we are focused on data visualization methods with a major emphasis on ggplot2.

# R Club Meetings

As of Winter 2013, R Club meets in Briggs 148 on Thursdays from 5 - 7pm. In order to attend R Club, you must complete the reading and submit answers to the assigned homework. See [Homework Guidelines]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2013-01-01-homework-guidelines %}) for more info.

# Joining R Club

If you want to get involved with R Club, [contact us]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2013-01-01-contact %}) for more info and to get on the mailing list.

R Club is not a class. Although one person typically leads R Club, there is no teacher that is going to tell you everything you need to know about R while you sit back and try to learn through observation. The best way to learn any programming language is to actively write code in that language. A huge part of learning this way is through lots of failure, so don't feel bad when you struggle over how to accomplish something in R.

We emphasize pushing our limits with both in-class exercises and out-of-class homework. Together with relevant R concepts, the approaches and solutions for the problem sets are discussed in class as well as [posted]({{ site.baseurl }}/solutions/) on the R Club website. As scientists, we are used to experimenting with protocols at the bench, now we can experiment with code at the computer.

# Getting Assistance with R

Having trouble with your R code? Try these resources:

- The first stop: [Google](https://www.google.com/)
- Brainstorm with one of your fellow R Club members
- Start a discussion during R Club
- [The Coding Collective™]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2013-03-05-the-coding-collective %})
- Ask [Mike or Julin]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2013-01-01-contact %}) for guidance
- The final authority: [Google](https://www.google.com/)




